---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

### What I Look for When Selecting an Open Source Project to Work on
One thing I consider when choosing what project to work on is how interested I am in the project. I want to contribute to projects that I genuinely think are fun, exciting or impactful. After all, I'm going to be making these contribtutions during my own free time--so I don't want these contributions to be considered chores or as if I could be spending my time doing something else. The aforementioned feelings are avoided if I am able to work on a project that I am passionate about. 

### What I am Able to Offer to a Project
I have experience in full-stack web development. On the front-end this entails HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. On the back-end I have experience in Python and Node. I can also work in C and Java.

### What I Hope to Learn from Working on an Open Source Project
I hope to strengthen my already existing skillset while also learning technologies that I have not worked with before. In addition, I would like to get more experience working in a collaborative environment and become more comfortable using Git.

### What Worries me When I Think About and Plan to Work on an Open Source Project
I suppose my biggest concern when contributing to a project is my capability to make a contribution. Even issues that are labeled "easy" may appear daunting to inexperienced contributors such as myself. I believe that this worry will eventually fade as I learn more about the projects I choose to work on and make more contributions.

### Questions for Aurelia Moser
1. When it comes to how open source development works, what are the similarities and differences found between people who work on open source projects for a living and people who contribute to open source projects in their free time?

2. What has your experience been in resolving or mitigating contentions that arise between people during open source development?
